Welcome back.
Let's talk about the very first type of search in your search in computer science linear search or sequential
search is a method of finding a target value within the list.
And we should be familiar with this before because to run the course we've loop through arrays to find
items it sequentially checks each element of the list for the target value until a match is found or
until all the elements have been searched.
Let's take a look at a visual linear search is simply this.
We have items that can be nodes that can be numbers that can be anything and we go one by one looking
through the list.
We check the first item then the second item the third the fourth the fifth and the sixth in the best
case scenario we find what we're looking for in all of one time because it's at the very beginning of
the list.
Such as if we're looking for six over here.
However in worst case we have to go through the entire list.
If we're looking for nine and check every single note or if we're looking for something that doesn't
exist we still have to check every single item and this type of sorting is very familiar to us.
For example if we take a look at javascript I have a list over here of beasts and let's say we're looking
for a good Zilah.
There's many ways that I could search for this item.
Good Godzilla in this list.
One way of doing it in javascript is using index of which gives me the index where I can find Godzilla.
And this uses linear search to try and find the item Another way is to use find index that takes a function
with a condition that the item must equal Godzilla and it's going to return true when it find something
again.
If I run this I get one another way is to use the Find function giving it the same function as we did
above.
But this time it's going to return the actual item instead of the index.
Goodwill.
And then also finally we also have this way of searching that includes method that simply says does
beasts include Godzilla and it's going to give me true or false.
In this case it's true and your language will have different ways to implement this type of search.
But all of these searches are linear searches that is worst case.
We're going through the entire list and as you know our inputs are our lists can get really really large
and linear time of an is OK but it's not the fastest we can't use linear search to index web sites like
Google or search for friends like Facebook because it's going to cost us a lot of time.
Is there a better way.
Well what if the list of our data here was perhaps sorted would that help us in any way would we be
able to improve.
Let's say we're looking for 9 now.
And we knew that the list was sorted.
Let's answer that question in the next video.